		      PORTING QT TO OTHER PLATFORMS

Read this file if you wish to adapt Qt to a new platform or compiler.  If
you come across any problems, feel free to send mail to qt-bugs@troll.no.


			       REQUIREMENTS

The new platform needs Xlib for X11R5 or newer.  Motif is not required.
If it is not a Unix system (for instance VMS) things may get complicated.
Porting to other Unixes is generally straight-forward.

Qt requires that your C++ compiler supports multiple inheritance and
templates.  The compiler must recognize the .cpp extension.  Exception
handling and RTTI (Run-Time Type Information) are not required.

				 PATCHES

Note that you may not distribute your port without our explicit
permission.  Please send us the patches you had to make so we can add them
to the code base; then we can support the new platform in an orderly
manner.  (We want Qt to run on as many platforms as possible, but _not_ if
that involves patches we don't know about floating around the net.)

Further, we would like to have copies of all Qt-related files on
ftp.troll.no.

			   PORTING INSTRUCTIONS

Create a new file in the configs/ directory, describing the compilation
requirements for your platform.  Edit qt/Makefile to support the new
architecture (it just refers to the config file).  Run "make config" and
thus configure for your platform.  You should not have to modify any other
Makefiles (but let us know if you do).

Modify qt/src/tools/qglobal.h as required: you need to ensure that
_OS_whatever_ is defined.  We've done it for many platforms in the past,
those should be okay.  If you are using a compiler we don't detect it's
probably a good idea to add a _CC_whatever_ too (even though you don't
need it at once).

There are also some size-dependent types (Q_UINT32 and so on), make sure
they are right for your system.

Some compilers emit bad warnings when they compile Qt.  If yours does, and
the code in Qt is sane, please use a #pragma or two to shut your compiler
up.  (This is a good reason for wanting the _CC_whatever_ define above.)

Make a unified diff (diff -u) and send the patch to qt-bugs@troll.no

For most Unix varieties, that's all.  Some may need some include file
tweaks.  Good luck, and again, feel free to send mail to qt-bugs@troll.no.

