
                MIME++ Software License Agreement

THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is a legal agreement 
between you (either an individual or an entity, hereafter referred to 
as "Licensee") and Douglas W. Sauder ("Licensor").  By downloading 
and/or using the information contained herein, you are agreeing to be 
bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  If you do not 
agree with the terms of this Agreement, you must immediately delete the 
software information.

1.  Definitions

1.1  Software means the software products titled MIME++, which 
comprises library source code, library object code, documentation, and 
example programs.  Library refers specifically to the library source 
code or the library object code.

1.2  Documentation means all documentation in machine readable form 
provided by Licensor to Licensee via Licensee's download of the 
Software.

1.3  Non-Commercial License is a license which grants to Licensee the 
right to use the Library under the terms of this agreement for non-
commercial purposes only.  The Non-Commercial License shall apply 
unless a Commercial license has been granted by explicit arrangement 
with Licensor.

1.4  Commercial License is a license which grants to Licensee the right 
to use the Library under the terms of this agreement for commercial 
purposes. A Commercial License may be obtained only by explicit 
arrangement with Licensor, usually accompanied by payment of a license 
fee to Licensor.

2.  Grant of Commercial License.  Subject to explicit arrangement 
between Licensor and Licensee, including payment of a license fee, 
Licensor grants the Licensee and the Licensee accepts the following 
non-exclusive, non-transferable license:

2.1  Licensee may authorize one programmer to use the Library to 
develop one or more application programs for a single operating system.  
To "use the Library" means to statically link or dynamically link to 
the library object code.

2.2  Licensee may modify the library source code as necessary to 
conform to the requirements of the Licensee in creating application 
programs.  Any and all such modifications remain the property of the 
Licensor and remain subject to the terms of this agreement.  Modified 
code becomes the sole responsibility of the Licensee and shall be 
excluded from any and all warranties.

2.3  Licensee may distribute application programs that incorporate the 
library object code.  Licensee may distribute dynamic link libraries 
(*.DLL) or shared objects (*.so) that incorporate library object code 
with the application program if the dynamic link libraries or shared 
objects are necessary for the application programs to run.  Such 
dynamic link libraries or shared objects remain the property of 
Licensor.  Licensee must clearly indicate to recipients of the 
application that the dynamic link libraries or shared object are 
copyrighted and owned by Licensor.

2.4  Licensee may make one copy of the documentation in printed form.

2.5  Licensee may not use the Software to create a library-type 
product, or any product that may be competitive with or used in lieu of 
the Software without the express written consent of the Licensor.

2.6  Licensee, when making copies of the Software, including the 
documentation, shall reproduce any and all copyright notices, trademark 
notices, and similar notices onto the copies.

2.7  Licensee agrees not to rent, lease or otherwise assign any 
interest in or to the Software, or the right to use the Software, to 
any other person or entity without the express written consent of 
Licensor.

3.  Grant of Non-Commercial License.  By implicit agreement between 
Licensor and Licensee, Licensor grants the Licensee and the Licensee 
accepts the following non-exclusive, non-transferable license:

3.1  Licensee may use the Software to develop free application programs 
under the terms of a Commercial License with the following additional 
restrictions:

Licensee may not use the library to develop a product or service for 
commercial purposes without the express written consent of the 
Licensor. The following explicit restrictions apply:

(a)  All application programs developed by Licensee using the Software 
must, if they are distributed, be distributed as free software.  (Any 
distributed applications must be free.)

(b)  Licensee may not use the Software to develop any application 
program for which one or more programmers receives remuneration.  (May 
not be used in any professionally developed product.)

(c)  Licensee may not use the Software to develop a program, whether 
free or not, that is used in a commercially offered service.

4.  Ownership.  By virtue of this Agreement the Licensee acquires only 
the rights in Section 2 or Section3, above.  All right, title and 
interest in the Software shall remain with Licensor.

5.  Limited Warranty.  Licensor warrants that if the Software fails to 
substantially conform to the specifications in the documentation or to 
any other Software specifications published by Licensor, and if the 
nonconformity is reported in writing by Licensee to Licensor within 90 
days from the date a Commercial License is purchased, then Licensor 
shall either remedy the nonconformity or offer to refund the purchase 
price to Licensee.  In the event of a refund, the License shall 
terminate.

Except for the provision of this Limited Warranty, the Software 
otherwise is provided "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.

6.  Disclaimer of Warranties and Damages.  LICENSOR MAKES NO WARRANTY, 
REPRESENTATION OR PROMISE NOT EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT.  
LICENSOR DISCLAIMS AND EXCLUDES ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  
LICENSOR DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL SATISFY LICENSEE'S 
REQUIREMENTS OR THAT THE SOFTWARE IS WITHOUT DEFECT OR ERROR OR THAT 
THE OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED.

THE AGGREGATE LIABILITY OF LICENSOR ARISING FROM OR RELATING TO THIS 
AGREEMENT OR THE SOFTWARE (REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF ACTION OR CLAIM 
(E.G., CONTRACT, WARRANTY, TORT, COMPUTER MALPRACTICE, FRAUD AND/OR 
OTHERWISE) IS LIMITED TO THE TOTAL OF ALL PAYMENTS MADE BY OR FOR 
LICENSEE TO PURCHASE THE LICENSE.  LICENSOR SHALL NOT IN ANY CASE BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT OR PUNITIVE 
DAMAGES EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
DAMAGES.  LICENSOR IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR LOST PROFITS OR REVENUE, LOSS 
OF USE OF THE SOFTWARE, LOSS OF DATA, COSTS OF RECREATING LOST DATA, 
THE COST OF ANY SUBSTITUTE EQUIPMENT OR PROGRAM, OR CLAIMS BY ANY PARTY 
OTHER THAN LICENSEE.

7.  Indemnification.  To the best of Licensor's knowledge, the Software 
or the use thereof does not infringe any third party's rights.  
Licensor shall have no responsibility whatsoever for any claims of 
infringements of patents, trademarks, industrial designs, copyrights or 
other property rights affecting the Licensee's use of the Software.  
The foregoing state the entire liability and obligation of Licensor 
with respect to infringement or claims of infringement of any patent, 
copyright, trade secret or any other proprietary right.

8.  Copyright Protection and Non-Disclosure.  The Software (including 
all text incorporated into the Software) is owned by Licensor and is 
protected by the copyright laws of the United States and international 
treaty provisions and all other applicable national and international 
laws. Further, by virtue of this Agreement, Licensor may have access to 
information that is confidential ("Confidential Information").  
Confidential Information shall be limited to the Software and all 
information clearly marked as confidential.

Licensee agrees, both during the term of this Agreement and for a 
period of five years after termination of the Agreement and of all 
licenses granted hereunder, to hold any Confidential Information in 
confidence and not to make any Confidential Information available in 
any form to any third party or to use any Confidential Information for 
any other purpose than the implementation of this Agreement.  Licensee 
further agrees to abide by and enforce all copyright and related 
protection available to the Software.

9.  Termination.  This agreement is effective until terminated.  
Licensee may terminate the License at any time by destroying the 
Software and related documentation and all copies thereof (including 
copies on or in all types of media and computer memory and whether or 
not modified or merged into other materials).  If Licensee defaults in 
the material performance of any provision of this Agreement, then the 
License will terminate immediately and without notice.  Upon 
termination of the License, Licensee must destroy the Software and 
related documentation and all copies thereof.  Termination of this 
Agreement shall not limit Licensor from pursuing any other remedies 
available to it, including injunctive relief.

10.  General.

10.1.  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement sets forth the entire 
agreement and understanding of the parties relating to  the subject 
matter herein an merges all prior agreements, discussions and 
understandings between them.  No modification of or amendment to the 
Agreement, nor any waiver of any rights under this Agreement, shall be 
effective unless in writing signed by Licensor.

10.2  Waiver.  The failure by Licensor to enforce any provision of this 
Agreement or to exercise any right in respect thereto shall not be 
construed as constituting a waiver of its rights thereof.

10.3  Governing law, Arbitration.  This Agreement shall be governed by 
and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of 
Florida all disputes, differences or questions between the parties to 
the Agreement with respect to any matter arising out of or relating to 
the Agreement shall be finally settled under the laws of the State of 
Florida by arbitration to be conducted under the rules of procedure of 
the American Arbitration Association, which arbitration shall be 
conducted in the county in which Franchisor maintains his primary 
business location.  All awards may if necessary be enforced by any 
court having jurisdiction in the same manner as a judgment in such 
court.

10.4  Effective Date.  The effective date of this Agreement shall be 
the earlier of the following: (1) the date upon which the Software is 
downloaded by Licensee; or (2) the date that the Software is utilized 
in any form by Licensee.

