.\" -*-nroff-*-
.TH QPS 1 "Mar 30 1997"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
qps \- Qt toolkit based process monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qps
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B qps
is a monitor that displays the status of the processes currently in existence,
much like
.B top(1)
or
.B ps(1).
The user interface uses the Qt toolkit, and most operations should be
fairly intuitive.
.PP
The process list is sorted by the highlighted field (if old style tables are
used, the title is underlined).
Click on another title to change; click again to reverse the sorting
order.
.PP
Left-clicking on a process selects or deselects it. Shift-click to select
multiple processes.
.PP
The right mouse button pops up a context menu, which duplicates some
functions from the main menu for convenience.
.PP
To change the time-sharing priority of the selected processes, type the new
priority in the
.I Renice...
dialog. The new nice value should be in the range -20 to 20; 0 is the
default. A larger number means that the process gets less CPU time.
Only the super-user may decrease the nice value.
.PP
The
.I Change Scheduling...
dialog allows the super-user to change the scheduling policy of the
selected processes (using the Posix.1b real-time extensions present in
the Linux 2.0.x kernels). Normal processes are set to SCHED_OTHER and
have static priority 0; (soft) real-time processes have the policy
SCHED_FIFO or SCHED_RR and a static priority in the range of 1 to 99. (See
sched_setscheduler(2).)
.PP
By default, the process display updates every 5 seconds. To change, type the
new update period in the
.I Update Period...
dialog. The units min, s and ms may be used (if none, seconds are
assumed). You can force an update by pressing the space bar or
clicking the
.I Update
button.
.B qps
will consume a lot of CPU time if the update period is short or zero.
.PP
The USER field shows the real user ID. If the effective user ID of a
process is different from its real user ID, a plus sign (+) is appended to
the user name; if it is the super-user, an asterisk (*) is appended.
.PP
The load, CPU, memory and swap displays in the status bar can be
toggled between graphic and text representations by clicking on them,
or by settings in the
.I Preferences...
dialog. The load numbers shown are the number of jobs in the run queue
averaged over 1, 5 and 15 minutes.
.PP
.B qps
may consume a lot of CPU time with short update periods. If iconified, however,
.B qps
will use very little CPU.
.PP
.B qps
uses the file /etc/psdevtab for mapping device numbers to tty names. This
file is usually created by ps(1) from the procps suite when run as root. If it
doesn't exist or is unreadable, the /dev directory will be scanned instead.
.PP
For displaying the WCHAN field as symbols, the kernel symbol file
System.map is needed.
.B qps
will search for it in the following locations:
.PP
.nf
	/boot/System.map-RELEASE
	/boot/System.map
	/lib/modules/RELEASE/System.map
	/usr/src/linux/System.map
.fi
.PP
where RELEASE is the kernel release number, for instance "2.0.29". If the
System.map file isn't found or unreadable, hexadecimal addresses will be
displayed instead. The prefixes "sys_" and "do_" are stripped from the
symbols before they are displayed.
.PP
The
.I Socket Info
menu item opens a list of TCP and UDP sockets in use by the selected
processes. Double-clicking on a process has the same effect. Only the
super-user may view the socket list of processes with a different owner.
If
.I Host Name Lookup
is checked in the
.I Preferences
dialog, a host name lookup will be done for each IP address. This may cause
an occasional freeze, at least before everything has been cached.
.PP
.SH KEYBOARD ACCELERATORS
(valid in the main and socket windows)
.TP
.I "Meta-W"
Close the active window.
.TP
.I "Q, Meta-Q"
Quit
.B qps.
.TP
.I "Space"
Force an update of the displayed tables.
.TP
.I "Control-Z"
Iconify
.B qps.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.RI \-display \ display
sets the X display (default is $DISPLAY)
.TP
.RI \-geometry \ geometry
sets the geometry of the main window of qps
.TP
.RI \-background \ color
sets the default background color and an application palette (light and dark
shades are calculated).
.TP
.RI \-foreground \ color
sets the default foreground color
.TP
.RI \-name \ name
sets the application name
.TP
.RI \-title \ title
sets the application title (caption).
.TP
.RI \-style \ style
sets the application GUI style. Possible values are
.I motif
and
.I windows.
(
.B qps
is tuned for the
.I motif
style; other styles may or may not look well.)
.TP
.RI \-version
prints the version of
.B qps
and the Qt library, and exits.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Mattias Engdegard (f91-men@nada.kth.se)
.SH LICENSE
.B qps
is free software and may be redistributed under certain conditions. See the
GNU General Public License for details.
.SH FILES
.br
.DT
.ta \w'$HOME/.qps-settings\ \ \ 'u
/proc	kernel information pseudo-filesystem
.br
$HOME/.qps-settings	saved settings between invocations
.br
/etc/services	port number to service name mapping
.br
/etc/psdevtab	device number to tty name mapping
.br
System.map	kernel symbol map for WCHAN
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
ps(1), top(1), kill(1), free(1), renice(8), proc(5), sched_setscheduler(2)
.SH BUGS
qps is too big and too slow.

The %CPU number isn't accurate at very short update intervals due to
timer granularity.

The WCHAN field isn't correct if a process sleeps in a location outside
those in System.map (for instance, in a kernel module). In these cases,
the last entry in System.map will be showed (something like _end).

qps doesn't handle more than one process with the same PID.  This
can occur when using CLONE_PID with the clone() system call.

qps only looks nice with 75dpi fonts, since too many aspects of the geometry
are hard-coded.

Host name lookup should be done asynchronously by a background process,
instead of freezing the entire application.

